This is cfunge - a fast Befunge93/98/108 interpreter in C.

cfunge offers some features that many other standard conforming interpreters
don't. For example:
 * Sandbox mode, prevents programs from harming system (more details below).
 * Advance tracing support, debugging protocol support system under development.
 * Passes mycology (of course other conforming interpreters does this, but most
   interpreters are, sadly, not conforming).
 * Tested using valgrind and similar tools.
 * Tested with fuzz testing to ensure cfunge does not segfault on random stuff.
 * Coded for maximum performance AND correctness.
 * Support for selecting either 64-bit or 32-bit integers as datatype in
   funge-space at compile time.


Dependencies
------------
REQUIRED:
 * cmake (http://www.cmake.org/) to generate Makefile for cfunge.

 * A C99 compiler, or one that supports a large subset of C99, like GCC.
   GCC 4.1.2 is known to work, GCC 3.4.6 will work with some minor changes
   to CMakeLists.txt (see comments in that file for details).

 * A POSIX system. Linux 2.6.24 is known to work, so is FreeBSD 7.0. Windows may
   or may not work, but I won't fix any bugs that can't be reproduced on a POSIX
   system, except if someone else provides a patch. Patches are welcome only if
   they don't mess up source too much (anything using Win32/64 specific API
   counts as messing up).

RECOMMENDED:
  Boehm-GC (http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Hans_Boehm/gc/) version 7 or later
  is HIGHLY recommended. If you lack it you could try building without garbage
  collector but it is unsupported. If you still want to try, enable LEAK_MODE
  option in cmake. If a bug only happens in this mode, it probably won't get
  fixed as fast. Patches are welcome though.


Configuring
-----------
To build using cmake, you can run these commands in the top source directory:
  cmake .

If you are on a 32-bit system you may want to use 32-bit integers (instead of
64-bit integers) for speed. To do that you could use this command instead of
the above one:
  cmake -DUSE_64BIT=OFF .

If you want to see a list of available options use ccmake. It will allow you to
select options in a ncurses based user interface. Help is always shown at the
bottom of the screen.
  ccmake .
    (press c)
    (change options - use t to show advanced options)
    (press c again)
    (press g to generate make file)

For more information see:
  cmake --help
and/or
  ccmake --help

To disable garbage collector (not supported, see above) you could run cmake with
-DLEAK_MODE=ON. Use this only if you can't build Boehm-GC the correct way and
don't want, or can, use the binary downloads that are statically linked to
Boehm-GC.


Compiling
---------
After having run cmake as described in the above section, just run:
  make


Installing
----------
Not needed, cfunge can be run from build directory, but if you want to (after
having compiled cfunge):
  make install


Fingerprints
------------
It is planned to implement most or all of the existing fingerprints,
with some exceptions:
 * FNGR - Contradicts with 98 standard.
 * IMAP - Too intrusive.
 * MODE - Intrusive into IP handling.
 * TRDS - Exceedingly complex and intrusive.
 * WIND - Too complex to implement and not portable.

Short descriptions of implemented fingerprints:
 BASE I/O for numbers in other bases
 CPLI Complex Integer extension
 DIRF Directory functions extension (not available in sandbox mode)
 FIXP Some useful math functions
 FPDP Double precision floating point
 FPSP Single precision floating point
 HRTI High-Resolution Timer Interface
 MODU Modulo Arithmetic Extension
 NULL Funge-98 Null Fingerprint
 ORTH Orthogonal Easement Library
 PERL Generic Interface to the Perl Language (not available in sandbox mode)
 REFC Referenced Cells Extension
 ROMA Funge-98 Roman Numerals
 SUBR Subroutine extension
 TOYS Funge-98 Standard Toys
For more details please see the specs for each fingerprint.
In cases of undefined behaviour in fingerprints, cfunge mostly tries to do the
same thing as CCBI.


Undefined behaviour
-------------------
The Befunge98 standard leaves some things undefined, here is what we do for
some of those cases:
 * y pushes time in UTC not local time.
 * k with a negative argument reflects.
 * # across edge of funge-space may or may not skip first char after wrapping
   depending on exact situation.
 * ( and ) with a negative count reflects and doesn't pop any fingerprint.
 * Loaded fingerprints are inherited to child IPs at split (t).
 * STDOUT is only flushed at:
   * Newline (line feed, ASCII 10) printed using , instruction.
   * Any input instructions.
   * End of program.
 * Input buffering works as in CCBI.


Notes on different standards
----------------------------
The option -s 93 does not prevent the program from accessing outside the first
80x25 cells. Nor does it disallow instructions that didn't exist in 93. It does
however change space behaviour to match 93 style.

If a program depends on a instruction that is undefined in 93 to reflect, it
should be easy to replace such instructions with a r for reflect or any in the
range A-Z (and not load any fingerprint).

Further division by zero always returns 0 in all modes, though the Befunge93
specs says the interpreter should ask the user what result he/she wants in that
situation.


Sandbox mode
------------
Sandbox mode prevents Funge programs from doing "harmful" things, this includes,
but is not limited to:
 * Any file or filesystem IO is forbidden.
 * The environment variables it can see are restricted.
 * Non-safe fingerprints can not be loaded (this includes network and file
   system access as well as other things).
